# History
As clinchéed as it is, [[Granada]] is rich in history, and it isn't all Christian history by any stretch of the imagination.  In fact, for nearly 800 years it was caliphate and ran by two different [[Caliphate]]s. This is particularly important to keep in mind with the province of Granada as it was the last Muslim territory in Western Europe, and [[Granada]] was the final city to fall before Isabel of Castile and Ferdinand of Aragon. 

The arrival and creation of the caliphate in Al-Andalus was no mistake, and the move was calculated by the vampires tugging strings throughout the Ummayyad [[Caliphate]] during a time of upheaval in the Cradle of Civilisation and Northern Africa. This move was a last ditch effort to establish a [[Caliph]] both the human populace and the [[Camarilla]] found favourable. The move furthered the upheaval and set the caliph fleeing, along with his loyalists, to escape execution. It was no mistake that an invasion force was assembled and sailed across the Strait of Gibraltar to the Iberian Peninsula. The Christian powers in the area were far from unified and were hardly equipped to withstand the invasion. The Ummayyads swept across the peninsula, claiming it as their own, and stopping at the foothills of the Pyrenees where they were eventually rebuffed by the Frankish rulers from the north. Despite the halt in their advance, the Ummayyads were able to establish themselves firmly on the peninsula as its rulers with help from the Camarilla.

Ummayyad rule was not without consequence for the Christian and Jewish subjects under their control. These things included the Pact of Umar, a crusade by their northern neighbours into their land (more than once, I might add), and restrictions on alcohol consumption in public spaces. Despite these consequences and others, the groups managed to maintain themselves as individuals and establish a cultural identity that allowed them to flourish under Ummayyad rule. Convivencia was enjoyed by all at the peak of Ummayyad power until the caliphate's decay a handful of centuries later.

The fall of the Ummayyad [[Caliphate]] brought about turmoil for mortals and immortals alike. A rival faction within the [[Camarilla]] and a handful of opportunistic humans of a neighbouring African [[caliphate]] struck a blow when the caliphate was at its weakest from pressure and invasion from the north, and the two groups brought the caliphate to its knees and took control of the region that had not been claimed by the Christians of the north. While this did not change the ruling religion as conquests in the north had done, it did bring about harsher punishments for non-Muslims and intolerance from these new Muslim rulers. Regardless of their religious identifiers, the subjects did not like these new rulers, and neither did the vampires ruling in the shadows.

While they faced no open persecution or attack from the new overlords, the Mozarab [[Camarilla]] found themselves at odds with their rival sect. Those who had accompanied these new Muslim overlords sought to insert themselves within the established ruling class of vampires. Spats broke out in the steets, havens and places of [[Elysium]] were ransacked or burned, and new stomping grounds were erected by both sides of the undead conflict. In the end, the Mozarab vampires remained in control with only a small handful of concessions to these newer [[Camarilla]].

The outward face of the peninsula changed more slowly to the human eye over the following centuries. Slow dissolution began on what had been previously unified lands under the Ummayyads and the later African invaders. Smaller kingdoms and fiefdoms loyal to either Islam or Christianity began to popup across the northern border and flowed south as the African [[caliphate]] slowly lost footholds in the face of crusade, and later, the Reconquista. By this time, the Camarilla's power structure had already been established along the kingdom lines that were appearing across the geopolitical land, and perhaps unsurprisingly, these boundaries lie where princes had long since noted their holdings. This would remain the face of the Iberian Peninsula until James I of Aragon, who unified Aragon and Catalonia, and the marriage of Isabel of Castile and Ferdinand of Aragon, who unified ninety percent of the Spanish lands in the late 15th century. A map will be included below the historical text.

The Reconquista under Isabel and Ferdinand represented the last crusade taken into the Iberian Peninsula and serves as the end of Muslim political rule. The city of Granada was the last Muslim stronghold to fall, and it withstood the Catholic Monarchs' advances until 1492 when the caliph surrendered to Isabel and Ferdinand. This fall represents another huge shift in human politics that would have last consequences on the world of the vampires, ruling and mundance, throughout the entirety of Iberian Peninsula: The Royal Inquisition. While a papal inquisition had been present in Aragon and Catalonia under James I in the 13th century, the royal inquisition represented an arm that extended from the Mediterranean to the Atlantic and served as an extension of royal power. Jews and Muslims faced expulsion, and those who did not leave were forced to convert and therefore subject to inquisitorial process. Those of the night reckoned it was a bid by the Catholic Monarchs to wrest control and capital from the princes and other established members of vampiric court.
October 21, 2021

The powers of inquisition varied in their effectiveness against both the undead and the living, and disproportionately, the youngest vampires were affected the worst. The elders were accustomed to the sudden upsurge of violence, and while they were able to mentor the youth, it only took one careless mistake on the wrong day to suddenly spring the Royal Inquisition into action. In the early days of the inquisition, the sudden upswing in vampiric deaths crippled many with fear; some proclaimed the deaths to be those of witches while others, most notably the Dominicans and Franciscans insisted this manifestation was something else entirely. The two groups, with royal authority, commandeered cloisters and monasteries, easily shifting around the occupants to other areas; these buildings were then used as housing for suspected vampires until the time of auto de fé. The undead were shackled within, and while escapes were frequent, there were those who were not so lucky for one reason or another. These unfortunate souls met their doom under the morning sun in the courtyards of their prisons, behind closed portcullis and barred doors underneath the watchful eyes of their captors. The [[masquerade]] continued, but it was not through vampiric means; and those inquisitors left lasting marks on those who did survive or had lost a promising childe to the morning sun.

That was then, and this is now.
In the aftermath of World War II, the end of the Spanish Civil War, and the death of General Francisco Franco, Spain has enjoyed a constitutional monarchy, similar to that of the United Kingdom's. Unlike the monarchy within the United Kingdom, the monarch holds power to influence legislation and ministers, ratify laws, and declare war if need be. Despite this, many provinces within Spain maintain their own governing systems where local traditions and laws have more an impact than national ones, thereby creating a unique governmental system within the country. These things are in no small part influenced by the Camarilla as they had always been, and in some areas, the Anarchs, stepping in to pick up what the Camarilla left--willingly or unwillingly--left behind. Thus, on the surface, the undead's political map looks largely unchanged from the time of Reconquista against all external efforts made by the human populace of the region.